[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: The put, little trick here.
Lot of stuff going on here.
So put is, let's go back and
look at our blueprint.
[NOISE] Get out of here.
It should update and return the matching
line with the posted update object.
So that means there's one, I'm expecting
an object to come in from the client with
some properties that I need to first
find a line with a matching ID and
if I do, update that line
with the object I was given.
So I'm doing a few things here.
One, first I'm gonna grab the update.
Which is on rec.body.
So that can be an object with any
property on it that we want to
update the line with.
So the name, the pride,
the age, the gender.
Pretty much anything but the ID.
And then just for a safety check,
just in case you tried to update the ID,
I'm just going to delete the ID.
Just in case you tried to update the ID.
So we don't have things with two
the same ID's and stuff like that.
You don't want to change the ID,
the database is in charge of ID stuff.
So I deleted the ID of the update
objects just in case you put that there.
You don't have to do that but
it will fix some errors.
And then what I'm doing is I'm
just going to search to see given
the ID that you sent me here,
if that line exists in our database.
Which is just an array, so I'm using
the find index method of load ash,
which takes in an array and some object.
If it finds an object in that array
that matches these specific parameters
it will return the index of it.
So that's why I'm able to say, hey is
this index in this line, does it exist?
If it does not exist,
then just send nothing.
Just stop.
Just don't do anything.
Don't even try to update.
If it doesn't exist.
If it does exist, then this assign
thing is just like an extend.
Extend those two objects.
So take the update object with
the new properties on it and
extended on the old object.
Does anybody not know how extend works?
It's just merging two objects.
So, it's going to merge the object on
the right to the object on the left.
And then it's going to return
the object on the left.
So it's like, yeah if you found the lion,
which is referenced as the lions array.
This in an index right here,
this is a number,
and this is the object that
they sent on the put request.
Merge those two and send it back.
So this right here is updating
it inside the array and
it's giving it to us as
a reference to return.
So it's doing the two things in one line.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: There's a question on what's
your view on updating UI with the new item
instantly on the client and then rolling
back if the server does return in error.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so
if the server returns in error,
then you definitely want to roll back.
So the way you would have to handle that,
that's a good question,
That's definitely client side related.
So the way you do that is,
so this is the thing that
I'm using to update with the post
you would come down here and
do something .catch,
if you're using promises.
And you say, okay on .catch so you're
like you know handle the error here.
So yeah if the server responds back
than an error then you have a seat when
update the UI.
The server wouldn't even send back the
object that was created, so you couldn't
even update the UI if you wanted to,
you wouldn't even have the object.
So yeah definitely don't update the UI or
don't add any type
of object there until it comes back,
it'll probably show an error message or
something like that or
whatever you wanted to do.
Or gracefully try again if
it's a specific error message.
>> Speaker 1: Cool, yeah so
I sent back that updated line.
And then just listen on the port and
that's it for the solution.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: Did you make a delete route?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah actually I saved the
delete route so we could do it in person.
Yeah.
So, any questions on this?
No?
Okay.
So, the delete route.
Yeah, I want to do this one in person.
So if you haven't found out already, all
we have to do is just use the AGCP verbs.
Get, put, post, delete.
So, app.delete, we know is going
to be lions/: ID, function.
And we're going to take a request and
response.
So the first thing we need
to do is find the index.
So what I'll do is,
I'll just grab this, up here.
>> Speaker 1: So and
I'll do the same thing I did before.
If we couldn't find the lion the just
do the res.send just don't do anything
>> Speaker 1: Else.
If we did do it then we need to
splice it or I'm sorry lions.splice.
At that lion index one.
And then do a res.json or actually I
should say the reference verse, so
var deletedLion =
lionslion then splice it.
And then Send it back.
So that's the deleted route.
>> Speaker 1: So
first I'm gonna find it by index.
If it doesn't exist,
don't try to delete anything, just stop.
You could think of like when you could
only respond once inside of a function.
Once you respond,
you can do no more executions.
Almost like a return statement.
The JavaScript's still gonna go execute
but you cannot do another response.
If I do res.send here, and right below
it's like res.json, it won't work and
in fact express might even throw errors
like you can't you already did that.
You already try to write the head
you can't write it again.
>> [SOUND]
>> Speaker 1: So just remember that,
you can only respond once and any stack.
So even if I have a whole bunch of middle
ware here I can still only respond once
not per function but
per request you can only respond once.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so that's delete.
>> Speaker 1: Any questions on this stuff,
yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I got two questions.
First one, sometimes you see like these
object responses where they have like
all this other data of like
what was the response 200 and
other things that they tag along.
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Do you think that is a good
idea, is that like a best practice, or
just some people?
>> Speaker 1: You mean have the server
send all that stuff back to the client, or
are you saying?
>> Speaker 2: I'm saying,
in some API's that they put more
properties around their requests.
They don't just return
the object you changed?
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Speaker 2: They'll add some other
attributes and then you can do like change
object is one of the I see what you mean,
so like having the API send
back a more informed resource.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: That's kind
of like a couple of things.
One, the resources are probably a lot
huger than our simple line read,
resource so there's tons of more
native properties on that object.
And then two, they probably
are like an API as a service, so
they need to send specific information,
like maybe your rate limit or
specific things like maybe
you're hitting pagination and
they want to show you what page
you're on or what cursor you're on.
So depending on the API you will
see a lot of different things.
But like if you're building an API for
your application you probably won't
have a lot of that stuff right,
because you aren't building your
API as a service for people to use.
You're just building it for
your application, so
probably only send back what your
application needs to cut the wait down for
what's sending across the wire
>> Speaker 2: Okay that makes sense.
And then my second question is, if we were
pushing this to production on a put route,
would we validate the fields
that they're trying to update,
like they could add any
fields to our extend.
>> Speaker 1: Right, and that's where
the data's gonna come in on our schema,
we do the validation there.
>> Speaker 1: But that's like
the last place you do validation.
You should be validating
on the front end like,
you should have JavaScript validate
before you Since to the server first.
>> Speaker 2: But
you wouldn't validate in the route,
you would validate in the database.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah I validate in
the database, I'll let it try to save.
And let the database do its validation,
which is way more powerful than
something I could probably write.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
more efficient, that makes sense.